- [Instructor] Now that we've talked a little bit
about what a KeyStore is,
we're gonna use the JCA to create an in-memory Java KeyStore
that we could use with other systems on an internal network,
if we decided to do so.
Now we're going to store a shared symmetric key
in order to avoid some of the messiness
of JCA with certificates.
But note that you can do this
with certificate pairs if you wanna do that,
so an X509 and a private key that matches it.
I'd like you to go ahead and jump into your IDE,
and we're gonna open up source, main, Java,
and our com.frankmoley.crypto package,
and let's create a new package
underneath that called keystore.
And to our keystore package
we will create a new Java Class called KeyStoreUtils.
And one more time, we will create a private static final
String named SECRET_KEY_KEYSTORE_TYPE,
and the type that we will use is JCEKS.
And the reason we're gonna actually create
a specific type of a KeyStore,
is because we're saving a private key,
and the standard default KeyStore
will not store a private key in Java.
So let's go ahead and implement the method now.
So private static_KeyStore
create PrivateKeyJavaKeyStore.
We are gonna send in a String of keystorePassword,
and a String for the keyAlias,
and then the SecretKey itself,
and finally a String for the secretKeyPassword.
Now we could've used one password for both,
but I prefer not to do that.
I prefer to keep them separate.
And one more thing here, we're gonna throw an Exception,
and let's import that element,
and now we're ready to do some work.
So let's create an instance of a KeyStore object
called keyStore,
and as you might imagine we're gonna do
KeyStore.getInstance,
and we will send it our secret KeyStore type.
Now, in order to manipulate a Java KeyStore in memory,
you actually have to load it,
but since we're gonna use memory to do our loading,
we're gonna send a null input String.
But, we need to actually set the password,
so we're gonna do keystorePassword to a character array.
Alright so now we need to actually store the password
for the actual key itself.
So we're gonna do a keyStore.ProtectionParameter,
and we are going to call this ProtectionParameter
entryPassword, 'cause this is the password
for our secret entry itself.
Now this equals a new_KeyStore.PasswordProtection,
and to that we will set our secretKeyPassword.toCharArray.
Go ahead and shrink this down so it's a little easier to see
all these typing of the long lines.
So now we're gonna create an actual entry
for our secret key,
by using the keyStore.SecretKeyEntry
equal to new_KeyStore.SecretKeyEntry,
and we will set our secretKey on that.
And finally, we can call keyStore.setEntry,
pass it our key name,
because this is how we will actually load it later,
the privateKeyEntry, and then the password for that entry,
and then we can return our keyStore.
Alright so now that we've implemented this,
let's actually go create a test
so we can make sure that this works.
Go ahead and accept the method here.
Now to this method I wanna go ahead
and set a throws Exception,
and now let's go implement our test.
So we're gonna get an instance of a SecretKey
from our SymmetricEncryptionUtils.createAESKey.
Now in order to test this,
we are going to get the hex of that.
So secretKeyHex
equals DataTypeConverter.printHexBinary
on the secretKey.getEncoded.
And we'll use that here in a little bit.
So let's get our KeyStore
from KeyStoreUtils.createPrivateJavaKeyStore,
and we are going to pass it a password of password,
an alias for our key of foo,
the actual key itself,
and then a keyPassword of keyPassword.
So now we've got our KeyStore.
We can go ahead and assert that that is NotNull.
Now we're gonna actually go in and load the KeyStore.
I didn't do this in an actual method,
so we're gonna do it here in our test.
So once again we're loading it from memory,
so we will pass it an input stream of null,
and the password that we chose was password
so we'll do password.CharArray.
Now we have to kinda reverse our process,
so KeyStore.ProtectionParameter,
entryPassword equals new KeyStore.PasswordProtection,
and we are going to set it to keyPassword.toCharArray,
and now we will get the SecretKeyEntry called resultEntry,
and we're gonna have to cast that
to a KeyStore.SecretKeyEntry,
because it's just gonna be a raw entry when it comes out,
to keyStore.getEntry.
Now, we will get an entry by the name of foo,
which was our alias,
and the entryPassword that we created.
Now our SecretKey, which we will call result,
is from the resultEntry.getSecretKey,
and finally the resultKeyHex
equals DatatypeConverter.printHexBinary
on result.getEncoded,
and we can do an assertEquals on the original,
which was secretKeyHex,
and then the resultKeyHex.
And we'll go ahead and run our test.
And after compilation is done,
everything's green and we're good to go.
So we created a key, stored it in a KeyStore,
opened the KeyStore back up, pulled the key out,
and verified that the two keys were the same,
which is exactly what we would expect.